- [Instructor] Single-node Docker swarm mode cluster
still has the problem of single point of failure.
Even if we deploy a multi-container application on it,
it's still going to fail if the node goes down.
Let's take a look at how can I create
a multi-node swarm mode cluster using Docker Machine.
If you remember, we talked about Docker Machine
in the very first chapter
where it was a way by which we can create
multiple Docker Engines on my host itself.
We saw how easy it is to initialize swarm mode.
So we say docker swarm init
and in case I want to specify a listen address
that this is where I'm going to be listening for request
for other managers or workers to join me.
I can specify an IP address.
Typically your machine
would be running multiple network interfaces.
You could specify the IP address on which
you want to accept those requests.
When you are creating a worker,
let's say you have a new Docker Machine,
you can make that worker machine join the manager
and from the manager, you have to obtain
either a worker token or a manager token
depending upon what you obtain and what you get.
That's the token that you use
to make that worker machine, shown in orange,
join the manager, shown in yellow.
Similarly, you can have multiple workers join the cluster.
So in this case for example I have
one manager right in the middle, which is yellow,
and five workers other than the yellow
on the far extremes.
I can also have a secondary manager join the cluster.
So there is a primary and a secondary.
If the request goes to secondary,
it is automatically proxied to the primary
and primary is the one that is actually serving
the request itself.
Let's take a look at how can we create this cluster
very easily on our machine.
In my terminal, I have this script,
called as swarm-machines.
Before we look at the script,
we are into the chapter4 directory.
Now, let's look at the script here.
Here, I'm saying three managers and three workers.
Then I'm running a for loop.
I'm saying
docker-machine create
using virtualbox manager
one, two, and three.
So I'll have three managers here.
Similarly, I will have three worker machines.
Essentially if I say
docker-machine ls,
it'll show me that the six machines have been created.
The different Docker Machines used in this video
have been precreated.
You can use the swarm-machines shell script
and precreate the video
and that is not shown in this video.
Just to see a full view of the output,
let's zoom out a little bit
so you can see manager1, 2, 3,
worker1, 2, 3.
All of them are running
and each of them is assigned an IP address,
and they're all running Docker version 1.13.1.
The output may be a little bit different
if you're running it a later point of time
and a different version of Docker is available
at that point of time.
Let's zoom back in.
In the same directory,
there is a readme.adoc as well.
I'm going to copy the instructions from there
to create a cluster of these six Docker Machines.
The first thing I'm going to do is let me copy this command
and I will go to my terminal
and paste this command here.
Let's see what we're doing here.
We're saying docker-machine ssh to manager1
and I'm not really SSHing,
but I'm just giving a command to it
and in the command I'm saying, docker swarm init.
I'm initializing a swarm mode cluster.
I'm saying the IP address where I'm going to listen is
the Docker Machine IP of manager1
because this is the manager host or the manager node
where I want to listen.
Then I also advertise the address
that this is where I'm going to be receiving the request.
If we press enter here,
it's going to start manager node
on the manager1 Docker Machine.
It gave me similar output over here.
Let's go back to our script.
If we take a look at all the
nodes in the cluster,
we can do it this way.
I can say ssh to manager1
and show me all the nodes in the cluster.
It says, okay, this is the manager ID.
This is the host name, status is ready,
availability is active,
and the manager status is leader.
That's cool.
Let's add some workers and managers to it.
I'm going to copy this command here
to get me the manager token.
Back in my terminal, if I give this command,
here is my manager token that I need to use.
All I'm saying is docker swarm
join-token,
give me the manager ID.
I'm just saying give it to me quietly,
that is only the manager token and know their output.
I can do the same command for worker as well.
I get the worker token ID.
Let's go back to our script, I'm going to copy this command.
Back in my terminal, paste this command here.
Now, I'm giving this command to manager2
and I'm saying docker swarm join.
This is not an init because I'm not joining a cluster.
I'm saying the value of the token comes from
docker-machine ssh manager1
docker swarm join-token manager2,
which is the same command that we gave earlier.
Now, the listen address and advertiser address
are of course of going to be of manager2.
However, I need to also give the host IP
of the node where Docker manager is listening.
In which case, this is manager1.
So if I give this command here,
now essentially, this node joined the swarm as a manager.
How do we verify that?
Let's give our docker node ls command again,
and now you can say manager1 is the leader,
manager2 is active and is reachable.
We can give the same command for manager3 as well,
and let's copy the script for that.
Paste the command here.
Once again, now I'm giving the command to manager3.
The manager token still needs to be obtained from manager1.
I could have given it to manager2
and it would have proxied to manager1,
but just keep the command consistent.
The listen and the advertise address
are still IP manager3
in both cases
and the original request has to be made to manager1
because that's my original leader.
This node joined this swarm as a manager as well.
Let's verify it.
You can see there are three managers in the cluster.
One is the leader and the other two are reachable.
Let's add the rest of the worker nodes
to this cluster as well.
Let's go to our script and copy the commands.
Let's paste the command here.
What is different here?
First of all, I'm saying docker-machine ssh worker1.
Then I'm saying docker swarm join
and the token that I'm passing is
the join token worker now, not the manager.
The worker needs to have
a listen and an advertise address as well
in case it gets promoted to worker at a given point of time
and the request is still made to manager1.
Run this command, and now you see the output
that this node joined a swarm as a worker.
We can also edit the commands here.
We can say this is worker2.
This is worker2.
We still have to receive the tokens from manager1
and this is worker2.
This node joined a swarm as a worker as well.
Let's do that for worker3 as well,
worker3,
and then we want to give this command to worker3,
so worker3.
This node joined a swarm as a worker.
Let's take a look at the list of our nodes indeed.
We can see manager1 is a leader,
manager2 is reachable,
manager3 is reachable,
worker3, 2, and 1 are part of the cluster
and that is a good start for us.
With Docker Machine, we have been able to
easily create a Docker swarm cluster here.
What other things we can do here?
Well, we can take a look at the Docker info this time.
Let's copy the command for that.
We can just say docker info.
And now if I look at the output,
let's go to the top here,
I'm SSHing to manager1 and giving the command docker info.
There are no containers running on it.
No images are available
because this is a brand new cluster that we just created.
Swarm is active.
The manager is true.
Total limit of managers are three.
Total limit of nodes are six.
That means the rest of the three are workers.
We saw the information as we saw on our Docker format
and now this is a multi-node cluster
created using Docker Machine.